[SHUICHIRO]
Good morning, Hina.
Come, now. Show us
what you can do today.
[SHUICHIRO] You're doing
splendidly, my dear!
[SHUICHIRO] A wonderful job,
Hina. Great work.
My, my, you're truly a prodigy!
Your progress has
been excellent.
I foresee no further
difficulties for you, Hina.
[HINA]
But, Grampa. What about you?
[SHUICHIRO] Me? Oh, I'm simply
a bit tired, sweetheart.
[coughs]
I've arranged for
all that's yet to come.
So the future needn't worry you.
Grampa.
[TOKIKO gasps]
[TOKIKO] Is something
the matter, Hina?
[HINA] I saw Grampa again
while I was sleeping.
So you were dreaming
about your grandfather.
[HINA]
Indeed.
I see. You loved him
a lot, right?
I'm sure you miss him.
I do.
We loved him, too.
Daichi and me both.
He truly was a wonderful person.
[LOAN SHARK 03A]
So you wanna run lines?
[KAKO] Is anybody else thirsty?
Or is it just me?
[HINA]
Hm? Taping even between takes?
It's for the making‐of doc.
There's a making‐of? Hell, yeah!
I definitely wanna
be a part of that.
I finally get a chance
to be onscreen!
Right, for sure.
I wanna get the crew on camera.
[CRONY 04A, LOAN SHARK 04A]
Huh? Are we in it, too?
Well obvi, guys!
So I'm in the movies now?
Goin' straight has its perks.
[KAKO]
Yes. Isn't that nice?
Yeah.
It's a big help
having a veteran...
[HINA]
I see. As the heroine,
perhaps I had best let the
others say their piece first.
[ALL chattering]
You okay?
[YOTA]
Huh? Oh, yeah. Sorry about that.
You're so silly.
[YOTA] When this summer
comes to an end,
what's gonna happen
to all of us?
[YOTA]
Is the world gonna end?
Despite everything else, I just
can't imagine that happening.
But somehow, I'm sure Hina's
gonna be leaving us soon.
[YOTA] And I need to be ready
when that day comes.
'Cause if I'm not,
it'll wreck me.
[YOTA] Hey. I know
Hina's a distant relative
of ours like you said,
but how long is she staying?
Huh? There a reason
you're asking now?
Oh. It's nothing, really.
It just kinda feels like
maybe she might disappear.
[BOTH]
Huh...
I see. I hadn't
prepared for this yet.
[TOKIKO]
It's fine, dear.
We knew that this
conversation would be hard,
but Hina and Yota
have gotten close.
So it's only fair
that we fill him in.
You're right, dear.
Huh?
Hina's not our relative
by blood. That was a lie.
Huh?
[DAICHI] She's the
granddaughter of someone
your mom and I knew.
A professor who was
a mentor to us.
Then what happened
to her birth family?
[DAICHI]
Her mother has passed on.
From what we heard,
her father started over.
He's made a good
life for himself
and had a few kids
with his new wife.
We're not sure
where they are now.
Wait. But then...
Doesn't that mean Hina's father
just walked out on her?
[DAICHI] That's how she ended up
in the care of our mentor.
So we can ask him. Can't we?
[DAICHI] Mm‐mm. This was
the arrangement we had.
He wanted to be ready
when his passing came.
He said he'd dress her up
in a way we couldn't miss,
and that when we found her,
we should try to help her
however we could.
When you called me back
on the day you first met Hina,
you described her clothes to me,
and I knew it was her.
So that's it, huh?
I never would've imagined. Wow.
Okay. Then tell me, how long
can she stay here with us?
That is a good question.
You're going to have to
think about that for yourself,
and of course, ask Hina.
Hark! 'Tis time to game!
And the boss shall fall
at last on this day!
Huh?
Yet wherefore dost thou gaze so
pensively upon thy bookshelf?
My parents told me the story of
how you ended up staying here.
So I see.
Prying into the past of a god.
'Tis blasphemous in the utmost.
Uh‐‐ But you're a human, 'cause
you've got parents, right?
'Tis no lie.
I am of mortal birth.
Yet verily, I've ascended
to godhood.
The miracles thine
eyes have witnessed
have surely told thee as much.
[YOTA] True. She's helped me
in ways I can't explain.
What else can I call
the things she's done
except miracles, but...
So when did you
become a god, Hina?
Three hundred and
thirty‐four days ago.
[YOTA] That was when you
started calling yourself a god?
On that day, my divine
power was made manifest!
Do you have any idea why
that would've happened?
No. Even I don't know
the source of my power.
And they told me your
father was alive, too.
Tread'st thou unabashed
into such turbulent waters?
My parents had long since
taken leave of me,
so I came to be in Grampa's
care, and then here.
I think we should
go meet your father.
We could find out
more about you.
We could find out more?
What could there be to know?
Like everything!
What? About li'l ol' me?
Your life before you got here!
I have to know everything.
To what end?
That which is done
cannot be changed.
[YOTA]
Yeah. That may be.
But people want to
know each other.
Don't they?
And what then of
the pain in my heart?
Wouldst thou have me seek
the father who cast me off?
[gasps]
[YOTA] That's totally fair.
Sorry, I'm an idiot.
Hey, studying helps
with that, doesn't it?
Thou designest to
seek him without me?
[YOTA gasps]
[HINA sighs] As in all things,
my power would aid thee.
Indeed, his whereabouts
are known to me.
Seriously?
What fey mood takes thee?
[YOTA] You've dealt with
everyone's family problems.
And you put so much of
yourself into helping them.
Now I wanna do
something for you, too.
Is that so?
And you surely
won't be dissuaded.
[YOTA]
Mm.
Fine, then I shall
join in thy endeavor.
Wait, you will?
'Tis by my power alone
this venture might succeed.
I shall accompany thee.
Thank you again.
[HINA]
Be this the ocean?
Will I at last see it
with mine own two eyes?
Wait. You mean you haven't?
Only on TV and the net!
No kidding. Well.
You wanna go while
we're out there?
[HINA]
Verily!
It's not a short trip though.
Wonder what's the best route.
[HINA] The answer was known,
ere thou thought to ask.
But it shan't be
a single day's journey,
therefore pack thee a bag.
Got it, sure.
Wait, say that again?
[YOTA]
Hey, Mom? Um...
Hina and I were gonna take a
trip out to her dad's place.
There's a bus route.
But, it's a long journey.
Like, overnight.
Will that be okay?
Well, you'll need food.
I'll go make some
bentos for you!
[YOTA]
Thanks, Mom!
Say. You think this is
what it feels like to elope?
Nay, for what mother
would grant her bentos
to a union she'd not blessed?
[YOTA]
Good point.
Whence come these
thoughts of elopement, Yota?
Have my charms at long last
prevailed upon thee? Hmm?
I mean, it reminds of
a scene like that
from a movie,
that's all! Ha, ha!
Hark. Though I be a god,
I be yet a maiden.
Toyest thou not with my heart.
Okay. Well we walked off set,
so our movie's on hold
till we're back.
Indeed, but it doth
approach completion.
[HINA]
Yummy!
Sweetness be the true
essence of tamagoyaki!
I noticed Mom's been
adding more and more sugar to it
every day since you
started staying with us.
Yea, for I have counseled
her thusly on how
tamagoyaki should be
properly made, duh.
Hey, cut that out!
I like Mom's home cooking
just the way it is!
Oh! Her curry, too,
shall grow sweeter hereafter.
As of yesterday.
[YOTA]
Stop it right now!
Stop destroying the
flavors of my childhood!
[HINA]
And her mapo tofu.
[YOTA]
You're a monster!
[HINA]
The bus goes no further.
[YOTA]
Man, there is nothing out here.
I don't think we're
gonna catch a cab.
So guess we're on foot.
[YOTA]
Ugh. This sun is absolutely
destroying me right now.
[HINA] Behold. My garments
shield me from its rays.
So great is my foresight.
[YOTA] Uh. You don't
look very shielded.
[HINA]
We are nigh upon it.
[YOTA] I know it's
too late to turn around,
but I'm getting kinda nervous.
Aren't you scared about how
it might go with your dad?
Nay, to me such matters
pose no concern at all.
'Tis he who must confront
the child he abandoned.
How awkward! [laughs]
Is that really
something to laugh about?
I should be ready if
this whole thing goes awry.
[HINA]
This seems to be the place.
[YOTA] It's huge, and it
looks like it was just built.
[HINA]
Verily, 'tis a home of a caliber
many families would dream of.
[YOTA]
Here goes nothing.
[doorbell rings]
[ISUZU]
Yes? Who is it?
[YOTA]
Um. Hi.
Good afternoon,
my name is Yota Narukami,
and I'm an acquaintance of an
acquaintance of your husband's.
So please pardon me, ma'am,
but could I please ask
if he'd please kindly
give us a moment of his time?
Oh cease thy pleasing, please.
[TOSHITOKU] Hello? Is there
something I can help you with?
[YOTA]
It's him!
I'm freaking out,
but now's the time to man up!
W‐W‐W‐W‐Well, actually, sir,
I c‐c‐c‐c‐c‐came to
discuss Hina!
Thy lips flap as fowl.
[TOSHITOKU] I'm sorry.
You know Hina somehow?
Y‐Yes sir, I do!
[TOSHITOKU] That's unexpected.
Please come in.
Of course, sir, thank you
very much please!
Enough is enough.
Yay!
[ISUZU] Play out there
for a while, okay?
‐‐Okay! See you later, Mommy!
‐‐We'll be right here!
[TOSHITOKU]
Apologies for the wait.
Oh no, that's all right, sir,
thank you for your time!
I'm Yota Narukami.
[TOSHITOKU] Pleased to meet you.
I'm Toshitoku Sato.
[YOTA]
So this is Hina's father, huh?
Just by looking at him,
he seems pretty much
like any other dad.
[YOTA] Um. There was
something I was hoping
I could ask you about Hina, sir.
Hina. Ah. She surely had
a tough lot in life.
Wait, she "had"?
[YOTA]
What is this? Something is off.
Here's the tea you asked for.
[YOTA]
Uh. Thank you very much.
[YOTA] Just me? But why?
Hina's right here with me.
Wait a minute.
She and I came all
the way here together.
She's still here.
She's sitting in
the chair next to mine!
No way. Tell me it's not true.
It can't be, can it?
Am I the only one
who can see Hina?
Oh. Your royal milk tea
will be a bit longer.
‐‐Thank you.
‐‐They see her!
Had there been any doubt?
What, it was like the soundtrack
was about to go "bwah"!
But in real life or whatever!
What on earth are
you talking about?
Plus, when did you ask for royal
milk tea in the first place?
When the lady of the house
so graciously asked me
what I wanted to drink.
Just have green tea!
So, who's the young lady
who came here with you?
Uh‐‐ Wait, you can't tell?
It's Hina.
She's your daughter, sir.
Hina? That can't be.
Answer me.
Could you really be her?
[gasps]
[HINA] Aye. Indeed I am
Hina Sato herself. What of it?
But how is that possible?
I have become a god.
You what? What do
you mean by "a god"?
Uh, can we back up
a sec, please?
‐‐[glass shatters]
‐‐[TOSHITOKU gasps]
Oh, please, no.
Darling, is that really her?
Isuzu. Stay calm.
Why is she here?
[YOTA]
This is horrible.
I was nervous, but it's going
so much worse than I thought!
It's okay. It's okay,
don't worry, honey,
I'm taking care of this.
Both of you, please.
We can talk outside.
Would you mind waiting for me
out by the gate for a minute?
[YOTA gasps]
Of course.
[HINA] Behold! The ocean that
laps at these sands spanneth
over 71 and one tenths
percent of the world!
A vastness beyond knowing!
[dog barks]
[HINA] Peace to thee, friend.
What is thy name?
Looks like Munin is excited.
You should go play.
[HINA]
Indeed, then thy name be Munin!
Come along. Let us race!
[HINA giggling] What strange
sort of race is this?
You came all this way to be
thrown out of our house.
I sincerely apologize
for that ordeal.
It's fine.
So, what was it you
were hoping to ask me?
Can we talk about Hina?
What can you tell me?
I haven't been
a part of her life
since she was seven years old.
Will that be a problem?
No, sir.
Hina was sick.
She had what's called
Logos Syndrome.
It's a hereditary condition
that she carried her whole life.
Never heard of that before.
It attacks the nervous system,
with cerebral atrophy resulting
in neurogenic muscular atrophy.
As the patient grows,
the muscles waste away.
It's not survivable.
When Hina was with me,
she was always at death's door.
She could barely stand or speak.
[YOTA gasps]
There's no way!
That's what I thought, too.
That can't be her.
The lethality of Logos Syndrome
is a hundred percent.
There is no treatment for it.
[gasps] But she‐‐
[TOSHITOKU] I know.
That girl says she's Hina,
and she knows enough
about me to find me.
She can't be lying.
So where does that leave us?
If she's better,
should I be happy?
If she knows her only
father gave up on her
and started a new family,
should I be mad at myself?
[TOSHITOKU]
I know this much.
You're the one who decided
to bring her all the way here,
so I certainly have every
right to be mad at you.
Hold on. That's not fair!
[TOSHITOKU]
Maybe not. You're just a kid,
and you thought you were
doing the right thing.
How could you realize how cruel
it was to bring Hina back to me
in good health after
all these years?
[TOSHITOKU] I don't know
that anybody else could
truly understand this feeling.
[YOTA]
Are you saying...
...there's no way Hina can
stay here with your family?
[exhales] Son, you're way
out of your depth here.
You were watching
how my wife reacted
when she saw her.
[gasps]
You don't know what
it does to a family,
having a child whose
whole life will never be
more than a drawn‐out,
painful death.
My wife and I have
been through that pain.
So had Hina's mother.
She never stopped blaming
herself for her condition.
She only knew one way
to escape the guilt.
Oh, no.
But I'm still glad we saw you.
I'm glad you got to
see her healthy.
I was right to bring her here.
If I'd known she was
with you when you came,
I would never have let you
into my home at all.
But you're her only father!
How can you be so cruel?
I get that. I can't
make you understand.
You haven't lived through it.
I could tell you
a hundred different ways
and it wouldn't help.
[YOTA] That's an excuse.
You're being selfish!
Hina's such an amazing kid!
If you only knew
how she would turn out,
you'd never have left her!
Perhaps not.
When I knew her, I had no way
to communicate with her.
But now you do!
She's happy and healthy
and she's right there!
[TOSHITOKU] And it's
certainly a thing to see.
But no. I did all I could
for her years ago.
I was only treading water,
waiting for things
to fall apart.
So I gave up.
I left her behind
and tried to build a life
where I could do more
than grieve for her.
Do you understand the choice
I was forced to make?
[YOTA]
I don't.
Nothing you're
telling me makes sense.
I don't know why
you won't accept Hina.
Well you will.
Maybe not right now, but soon.
In fact, it could play out
the same way for you.
[gasps]
[TOSHITOKU] As I said, there's
no treatment for Logos Syndrome,
not now and not then.
I'm a doctor and I
keep up with the journals,
and its prognosis is as
fatal as it was when I left.
[TOSHITOKU] I'm speaking from
experience, so please listen.
Sometimes in life,
you see something that
looks for all the world
like a miracle.
But if you look long enough,
you'll realize it was
just a trick of the light,
and the world will go on
turning like it always has.
[YOTA]
Hey, Hina. Did you have fun?
[HINA] Mm‐hm! A dog is truly
a god's best friend!
[YOTA] The sun's going down.
We should get moving.
Yea, verily. 'Tis a shame.
It shall be here
that we part ways.
[YOTA]
That's right. Say goodbye.
[HINA]
Indeed. It is time.
Fare thee well, Munin. Bye, bye!
[YOTA] Is there anything you'd
like to say to your father? No?
Not at all. My sole
purpose in coming here
was simply to guide thee.
Right. Let's go.
[YOTA]
I bowed one last time
and bid my farewell
to Hina's father.
[YOTA] In the end,
why did we make this trip?
And had anything
good come out of it?
[YOTA] Wouldn't he and I
both be better off
not knowing what
we learned today?
It would have spared us
all the pain.
Life could have just
kept going like normal.
I can't help being
bothered by that.
A miracle!
Though it be on my plate,
the prawn moveth still!
Right. Enough playing
with your food, okay?
Yeah but look,
though! [giggling]
[TOSHITOKU] In fact, it could
play out the same way for you.
You'll realize it was
only a trick of the light,
and the world will go on
turning like it always has.
[YOTA]
What did he mean by that?
And what's gonna happen to Hina?
This girl so full of life
that it's been spilling
over into mine.
Could she really be...
No way.
What is this?
Wherefore dost thou
look so pained?
You're gonna be okay.
Those were all
just excuses, right?
I cannot shed any light
on words I've not heard,
but in mere days this
world shall meet its end.
And at that time, every burden
shall be lifted from thy back.
So let only this moment
weigh on thee,
and seek joy in the
little time that is left.
[gasps]
Look there! A game,
from times long ago!
Let us play it!
[YOTA] Seriously? Out here
and we're still playing games?
I think this one might be
older than my parents.
Come now and witness the
Wall of Death Technique.
[YOTA] How do you even
know about that?
How do I, even?
[ISUZU]
Honey.
[TOSHITOKU]
Hm?
We have some more visitors.
[TOSHITOKU]
Yes? May I ask who's there?
[gasps]